
### Text 1 - Fiction
Analyse **how** the writer **explores his connection** to the beach setting. 

- Personal Pronouns
- Anecdote
- Extended metaphor
- Diction
- Bittersweet


> [!NOTE]
> Identify what the question is asking of you, and then, in 3-4 sentences answer the question as accurately as you can.  DO NOT include any evidence at this point. It always pays to think about the following aspects: 
> 1. Why
> 2. Impact
> 3. Purpose

The writer of "The Kumara Harvest" explores his connection to the beach by reminiscing of his experiences near one during his childhood. It is filled with language features describing what the setting was like during his childhood and comparing them to what he is experiencing as he is writing the story. Williamson shows his memories originating from this setting and reflects on the idea on his own son's memories of the beach.

> [!NOTE]
> Once the intro is complete, begin your first paragraph looking at an **idea** that you're wanting to unpack (this should relate to the question). Most people will say something like: *"At the beginning of the story the writer uses interesting language to explore his connection to the beach setting"* While it has some vague link to the question, it doesn't actually give you anything to prove, so it has limited value as a start

The writer explores his connection to the beach by reflecting on the past. He begins the piece with an anecdote from his childhood, back when he would go to the beach with his father, and continues the idea during paragraph 4; "The beaches of my childhood were small and sandy..." Through the use of this anecdote, the writer highlights the positive connections he had with the beach and the bittersweet nature of reminiscing of his happy memories of the past, ending his anecdote with "it was a long time until I saw the sea again." This juxtaposition with his present self suggests the urgent and continuous nature of modern life, as he gets pulled out of his reflection thinking about his lateness. Perhaps the writer is dissatisfied with his life now compared to what it was when he was a child, "I sit here alone, not doing, just being." Additionally, this sentimentalism and his personal connection is developed further through the constant repetition during his anecdote in the first paragraph. "I remember" is used as to emphasize this connection he had during the past, and the one he is longing for during the present. Now that he is grown up, he no longer gets as excited to see the beach as "I see it every day", and the summers of his childhood would seem better than what the reader was experiencing now, as his adult life would be filled with stress and problems that he has to worry about. This anecdote makes me feel like the writer is longing to reexperience the past, back to his childhood where he had less problems and more of a connection to the beach. 

> [!NOTE]
> Once you've done your opening paragraph, think about how the text develops the ideas you're talking about. How are they seen throughout the text, and how does the text finish. Always make sure your topic sentences are ideas to argue and not just plot points (the ideas you argue will always come from the question you are answering)

While the reader continues sitting by the sea, we get to understand his current connections to the setting as he describes his place of sanctuary and appreciates the beauty of nature. Now, the beach is a place of peace to him, the triple construction "I sit and I watch and I listen" suggests that he is just there to relax, just to think. This connection to the beach is highlighted through the hyperbole of "the world is kept away." Through these language features, the author shows that his connection of the beach has changed from that of excitement and action to a place of rest and relaxation. It has become and escape for him to let go of his worries, and allows him a temporary escape from the rest of the the world. This is further explored through the extended metaphor, as he compares the other people at the beach to "seals playing boisterously in the water." Williamson knows that the "little dots" were surfers on the beach, yet chooses to describe them as animals - calling them "creatures", and a "flock" - to try and disconnect himself from the busy world. By refusing to acknowledge them as other people, he is imagining that he was the only one at the beach, or in the world. With everybody else gone, many of his problems would be solved, and he would be able to enjoy the nature all to himself. This would be his connection to the breach, his refuge where he could temporarily forget his problems and appreciate the beauty of nature. 

> [!NOTE]
> The final paragraph should be where you link everything you know about the text and state what the purpose and impact of it is. Don't just repeat what you've said. It is often the final paragraph that will take you to excellence. 

The writer's connection to the beach highlights to us the importance of the beach to him and the necessity of a place for each of us to relax. Through the writer's monologue, we can see that the beach is worth so much to the writer, who has such a personal connection to it. It is not only where the memories of his childhood are stored, but where he comes in the present to relax, and to be. 

### Text 2 - Poem
Analyse **how** the writer **explores the ways** people **cope** with a flood
- personification
- imagery

Everybody has has something bad happen to them or gone through a negative situation in their lives. Each of us has different ways to cope with these obstacles. 
In the poem "Cloudburst", the writer explores one way people cope with a predicament by looking at the positive side of the situation; making a flood seem better than it really is through the use of interesting language. Ireland shows that even a disaster that kills can have a positive side as long as you're looking at it from the right perspective. 

The writer begins the poem by outlining the true extent of the situation. By using extended imagery through multiple stanzas, the reader is able to appreciate and imagine what the flood would have been like for the people of the city. "The windows of heaven opened, a sea split out of the sky, streets sank beneath the waves." The use of this imagery give the reader a true understanding of the gravity of the situation. Though, it is also seems rather comical and unbelievable to me, as it's hard to truly imagine windows of heaven opening or seas coming out of the sky. This gives the stanza both positive and negative connotations, as the reader understands it was clearly a disaster of scale, but also 

Throughout the poem, the writer establishes himself as one of the people of that town. By the constant use of personal pronouns, the reader gets an idea that the reader was also a victim of the flood, "we were quick to produce a statistic," "we resolved we had suffered..." By constantly using the pronouns "we" and "us", Ireland makes it seem as if the town was a collective; a unified, monolithic entity that works together as one. 