##### Paragraph One

An interesting idea in the novel is what happens when rules are not enforced and what impact this has on everyone.  The novel shows that breaking the rules is a bad thing, but ultimately, if nobody enforces the rules, then anyone is free to break the rules whenever they want.  This is shown when Jack says to Ralph who cares about the rules.  Ralph replies by saying that the 'rules are the only thing we've got.'  Jack blatantly disregards the rules but nobody does anything about it.  Because of this, Jack feels like he can break the rules whenever he wants because no one will stand up to him.  This leads to the breakdown of society on the island.

##### Paragraph One Again

An idea that appealed to me focused around the concept of what happens when rules are there but not enforced, what impact does this have on everyone.  As a person who lives in a society full of rules, I've often wondered what would happen if I chose to ignore those rules and started living how I wanted to.  The novel shows that breaking the rules is a bad thing, but ultimately, if no one enforces the rules, then anyone is free to break them whenever they want.  This is shown when Jack says to Ralph who cares about the rules.  Ralph replies by saying that the 'rules are the only thing we've got.'  It is interesting to me that Ralph thinks that rules alone will set society up to succeed.  Surely he should be able to see that without enforcement of those rules, then anybody is free to break them whenever they want?  Jack blatantly disregards the rules but nobody does anything about it.  Because of this, Jack feels like he can break the rules whenever he wants because no one will stand up to him.  This leads to the breakdown of society on the island.  It makes no sense to me that Ralph wouldn't stand up to him.  They're both the same size, and Ralph is built like a boxer.  I wonder what makes him hold back?  Interestingly, William Golding wrote this novel as a critique on events that he had seen in real life.  The League of Nations was set up to stop bullies in the 20th C; however, it failed when confronted with Adolf Hitler.  It tried to appease Hitler rather than confront him.  Like Jack, Hitler was empowered by this and ended up staring a war that killed millions.  Could Hitler have been stopped earlier?  Could Jack have also been stopped?  And what does it mean for me when I see bullies?  Should I appease like Ralph, or should I find ways to stand up to them? Golding's novel highlights what happens if I don't stand up.
#example