In the short story 'The Lottery', written by Shirley Jackson, a key character that I found
interesting was Mr Summers. He is a character that facilitated death, and yet hid behind the name
and face of good-humour. In the story every year there is a lottery, where one person's name from
each village is drawn from the black box, and consequently stoned to ensure there is a good harvest that year. The lottery is conducted by the ironically named Mr Summers, a "round faced, jovial man", who appears to delight in his task. His carefree demeanour and sunny disposition is starkly contrasted with the horrific act that is being overseen. One of Mr Summer's most disturbing
qualities is that he doesn't change as the story progresses, despite the disturbing nature of the
story. "Mr Summers was very good at all this: in his clean white shirt and blue jeans, with one had
resting carelessly on the black bow." It should have been a difficult decision for him to facilitate the
lottery but he showed no sign of hesitation. For this reason his character fascinated me, as it made
me realise how traditions can mask the brutality of certain actions, as people carry on with the idea,
"we've always done it this way". There are many examples of this in history. During the 60's and 70's under the system of apartheid in South Africa, this same idea of hiding brutality behind tradition was present, and therefore seen as acceptable. It made me wonder if there are any routines in today's society that we do for tradition's sake, that might actually be disturbing to someone outside of our time or culture.

A key idea in the story is the value of human life. The story discusses, "is the good of the majority
worth the death of a few?" This is first shown by introducing the society as one of peace and
happiness, where everything seems wholesome and harmonious. "The morning of June 27th was clear and sunny, with the fresh warmth of a full-summer day; the flowers were blossoming profusely and the grass was richly green". At first the audience believes that this is a prosperous little village and a good place to live. However as the idea of the 'lottery' dawns on its readers, the grotesque underbelly of the town's so-called peace is revealed. As readers, we are horrified to learn that one member of the town is stoned every year. One person's sacrifice brings the rest of the village their year of plenty - a fair exchange in the eyes of the people. "Used to be a saying about 'Lottery in June, corn be heavy soon'. The author is trying to make us think and question the value of human life by showing us what the cost of individual pain looks like. "It isn't fair, it isn't right," Mrs Hutchinson screamed, and then they were upon her". The brutality of it is grotesque, with even the children partaking in the ritual. "The children had stones already, and someone gave little Davy Hutchison a few pebbles". Because I believe that God placed value upon every person, I personally believe it is wrong to sacrifice anyone, even for the good of the majority. I believe the author shared this view, as indicated by the disturbing spin that is put on this story.
#example