 The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas by Ursula K. Le Guin is a story about a city called Omelas which is set out as a utopia where everyone is happy. Later in the story, we learn that the prosperity their society is built on depends on the misery of a child, locked in a basement. 

An idea that stood out to me was how the people of Omelas chose to ignore the suffering of the child to pursue their own happiness. “They all understand that their happiness … even the abundance of their harvest and the kindly weathers of their skies depend wholly on this child’s misery.” Even though the citizens of Omelas are aware of the child's suffering, they willingly accept it as the price for their own happiness and prosperity, proving they are all part of the problem. This makes me reflect on situations in our own world where this is happening, such as how our consumerism leads to underpaid workers in less developed countries producing our products. We turn a blind eye to this so that our prices are lower at their expense, similar to how in the short story, "one thing I know there is none of in Omelas is guilt." This exposes a problem in both our society as well as Omelas', where the pursuit of collective happiness has overshadowed the true circumstances and supressed our conscience towards treating others with injustice. There are many examples of this from history, such as in Germany during World War 2. Many of the Germans citizens turned a blind eye towards the atrocities committed by the Nazi's in order to maintain the status quo, and out of fear of the loss of their own way of life. Maybe if they had stood up to the regime or stopped Hitler from being elected to power, it is possible that fewer lives could have been lost. Through the ideas of ignorance and injustice shown towards the child in Omelas, the author shows the ignorance towards injustice we have in our world today and draws parallels between the child in the story with those less fortunate in our society.  

Before the introduction of the suffering child, I found the city of Omelas and its idea of utopia hard to believe. The apparent contradictions of a religion without clergy, soldiers but no violence and drugs without use bothered me, as it felt like the city was fabricated and unrealistic. The darkness of man's heart was absent; there was no crime, poverty or any of the issues present in our society today. Le Guin even admits that it "sounds in my words like a city in a fairy tale, long ago and far away, once upon a time." By framing Omelas as distant and unattainable, I felt like a city like Omelas in our own world would be impossible. A more accurate portrayal of the city is displayed once the child is revealed, introducing flaws to the supposedly perfect city and uncovering the cost of a potential utopia. This causes me to question whether our society would ever be able to become a utopia, when even the mere description of one seems unbelievable. It also makes me wonder what kind of price we would have to pay for such a society. Is the constant happiness of utopia equivalent to the sense of joy and accomplishment we get from overcoming challenges, or will it feel monotonous and boring in comparison owing to the absence of any hardship. If that is true, would we also need 'the child' to help us discern the moments of true happiness, knowing that struggles and suffering exists in the world. Omelas' transition from an unimaginable city to a realistic one through the child highlights the potential caveat of a utopia, and the price we may have to pay for one.

The city of Omelas mirrors societies in our own world, where others' injustice is accepted as a price for our own happiness. It leaves me wondering if a utopia in our own world is truly achievable, considering the darkness within each of our hearts.
Le Guin draws parallels between the city of Omelas and our own world, and the price that is paid for our happiness.  This story reminds us of our capacity to ignore injustice for our happiness and leaves me wondering if utopia in out own world is truly achievable. 



After revealing the child, the author presents a more realistic depiction, introducing flaws to the supposedly perfect city and uncovering the cost of a potential utopia. This makes me think about the happiness our own society is aiming for, is it truly possible to create a world without evil, when even its description alone sounds far-fetched. 
If there was only pleasure in this world, would we be satisfied with boredom and stagnation or would we also need 'the child' to help us discern authentic happiness in the moments that matter, knowing that suffering exists. 

This reminds me that in my own life, when there are challenges, 
This causes me to doubt the own utopia we are striving for, when even the mere description of one seems unbelievable. 
The protest from the people who left Omelas intrigued me. Even though they 
By framing Omelas as distant and unattainable, I considered the unlikelihood of a utopia in our own world and 
By making Omelas seem distant and unbelievable, the reader is led to believe the impossibility of a utopian society in our own world being a reality. 

> Nice start, Daniel.  Love the first body paragraph.  The 2nd one is not as strong, and it does need a conclusion