 The Ones Who Walk Away from Omelas by Ursula K. Le Guin is a story about a city called Omelas which is set out as a utopia where everyone is happy. Later in the story, we learn that the prosperity their society is built on depends on the misery of a child, locked in a basement. 

An idea that stood out to me was how the people of Omelas chose to ignore the suffering of the child to pursue their own happiness. Even though the citizens of Omelas are aware of the child's suffering, they willingly accept it as the price for their own happiness and prosperity, “They all understand that their happiness … even the abundance of their harvest and the kindly weathers of their skies depend wholly on this child’s misery,” proving they are all part of the problem. This makes me reflect on situations in our own world where this is happening, such as how our consumerism leads to underpaid workers in less developed countries producing our products. We turn a blind eye to this so that our prices are lower at their expense, similar to how in the short story, "one thing I know there is none of in Omelas is guilt." This exposes a problem in both our society as well as Omelas', where the pursuit of collective happiness has overshadowed the true circumstances and supressed our conscience towards treating others with injustice. There are many examples of this from history, such as in Germany during World War 2. Many of the Germans citizens turned a blind eye towards the atrocities committed by the Nazi's in order to maintain the status quo, and out of fear of the loss of their own way of life. Maybe if they had stood up to the regime or stopped Hitler from being elected to power, it is possible that fewer lives could have been lost. Through the ideas of ignorance and injustice shown towards the child in Omelas, the author shows the ignorance towards injustice we have in our world today and draws parallels between the child in the story with those less fortunate in our society.  

Before the introduction of the suffering child, I found the city of Omelas and its idea of utopia hard to believe. The apparent contradictions of a religion without clergy, soldiers but no violence and drugs without use bothered me, as it felt like the city was fabricated and unrealistic. The darkness of man's heart was absent; there was no crime, poverty or any of the issues present in our society today. Le Guin even admits that it "sounds in my words like a city in a fairy tale, long ago and far away, once upon a time." By describing Omelas in this way, I felt like a utopia in our own world would be unattainable. However, a more accurate portrayal of the city is shown once the child is revealed, introducing flaws to the supposedly perfect city and uncovering the cost of a potential utopia. This causes me to question whether our society would ever be able to become a utopia, when even the mere description of one seems unbelievable. It also makes me wonder what kind of price we would have to pay for such a society. Is the constant happiness of Omelas equivalent to the sense of joy and accomplishment we get from overcoming challenges, or will it feel monotonous and boring in comparison owing to the absence of any hardship. If that is true, would we also need 'the child' to help us discern the moments of true happiness, knowing that struggles and suffering exist in the world. Omelas' transition from an unimaginable city to a realistic one through the child highlights the potential price we may have to pay for happiness.

In conclusion, The ones who walk away from Omelas provides a unique perspective on our society today, highlighting the fact that injustice towards others is accepted as a price for our own happiness. The author's portrayal of a utopia leaves me wondering if one in our own world is truly achievable, considering the darkness within each of our hearts.


