Name: Daniel Wu 

1984, by George Orwell takes place in oppressive state of Oceania, a society ruled by a totalitarian socialist party. The book follows Winston, the main protagonist, as he attempts to rebel, exposing the lengths authoritarian governments go to to maintain their power and dominance, using manipulation of the truth and surveillance of the people. Orwell's portrayal of a world where freedom is an illusion shows the fragile nature of democracy, mirroring the ongoing struggles against oppression in our world today and giving us an example of a possible dystopian future. 

Within the party, Winston works in the records department, altering or destroying records that are no longer needed or contradicts the party's ideology. This idea stood out to me as the manipulation of truth can be seen often in our own world today. Winston describes his own job as "The past was erased, the erasure was forgotten, the lie became the truth." By controlling what is reported by the media and what can be remembered about the past, people in power can influence our own decisions. This is especially escalated by the impact of social media, where biased, misleading or fraudulent information can be distributed and accepted as widespread fact by anybody. This makes me wary of anything that I see on the internet and blindly regarding it as truth without making sure that it comes from a trusted source. Another way the party spread misinformation and keep themselves in power was through doublethink, the ability to believe two conflicting ideas as truth. "War is peace. Freedom is slavery. Ignorance is strength." This allowed the totalitarian party to control people's thoughts, by making them accept contradictory ideas as true. The use of doublethink is also used by democratic governments in our world today. An example of this is the build-up of nuclear weapons and military power in our world, which is contrary to what is expected. Governments claim that the development of increasingly powerful weapons is for peace, acting as a deterrent to other countries, yet shouldn't they be doing the opposite, disarming their weapons and lessening their military if they were truly interested in peace? 

Another key theme shown in the novel is the constant surveillance and loss of privacy due to the control of the party and thought police. Although written back in 1949, the themes of surveillance in the book can be seen mirrored in our society today. The Party's surveillance ensures that every action, word, and even thought of the citizens is monitored, "There was of course no way of knowing whether you were being watched at any given moment. How often, or on what system, the Thought Police plugged in on any individual wire was guesswork. It was even conceivable that they watched everybody all the time." This makes me reflect on how surveillance and privacy issues are relevant in our world today, where governments could be constantly watching us without our knowledge. A well known example of this is the facial recognition and social credit systems in China, as well as an increase in surveillance in general across the world, especially in larger cities. Personally, experienced this myself when I travelled to China; you couldn't walk five minutes without seeing a camera, which were probably more common than birds. Although this made me feel safe due to the lower likelihood of crimes, I also felt anxious since you never knew when you were being watched. Someone could have complete access to where I went and what I was doing every day. A more secretive example of this monitoring is the PRISM surveillance program from the United States national security agency, where data is constantly obtained from companies such as Google, Microsoft and Facebook. The data that companies have about you are subsequently handed over to the US government, similar to being able to search a house without a warrant. It makes me feel annoyed and frustrated that companies are allowed to give away your data without ever asking or notifying you about it and makes me wonder how much data they could have on me. I think that as time passes there will be more surveillance upon each of us, and we will have to balance the benefits of safety and security with the downsides of losing our privacy. 

To summarize, the totalitarian regimes, constant surveillance and manipulation of the truth shown in 1984 are a true possibility of our own future. It also draws parallels to our world today, where these methods of keeping society in check are utilized by governments without us even knowing, reminding us of the importance of our own freedom.