Set on an uninhabited island, William Golding’s Lord of the Flies details the experiences a group of boys have while stranded during a world war. Leaving behind their previous ideas of civilization, the boys’ descend into savagery, revealing the true nature of humans and the darkness within us all. Three key events in the novel made me feel strongly towards the main protagonist - Ralph - who develops to an adult by the end of the novel.

Initially, I felt skeptical towards Ralph and his abilities to lead the rest of the boys due to the way that he is portrayed by the author. After they crash land on the island, Ralph immediately shows his immaturity towards the situation making me doubt his ability to lead the boys and survive on the island. When he realised that there were no adults on the island, "the delight of a realised ambition overcame him." Failing to grasp the true gravity of the predicament that they were in, he remained optimistic to the fact that there was a slim chance of his rescue. This childish character shows from his joy due to the absence of any grown ups: performing headstands, diving into the ocean and teasing Piggy. Performing headstands, teasing Piggy and playing in the ocean as a result of the absence of adults reveals his childish character. Although this made me skeptical of whether or not he would be able to lead the boys, it also demonstrated his innocence and purity, setting him up as the good guy of the story. This idea is further developed by the author when Ralph claims that his dad will "come and rescue us." His blind belief in adults and futile attempts to set up society led me to question his abilities as a leader. The difference between his innocent ideals and the true nature of humans proved to me that he lacked the traits needed to lead the boys to rescue. As a result, Ralph's actions at the beginning of the novel positioned me to feel a sense of skepticism towards him and his abilities to lead the boys.

William Golding uses Ralph's participation in the murder of Simon to position us to feel surprised, and question the nature of humanity. At the beginning of the novel, Golding describes him with "a mildness about his mouth and eyes that proclaimed no devil," establishing him as the protagonist of the story and highlighting his innocence and purity. This made me feel like I was on Ralph's side, supporting the "good guy" of the story. Yet, when tempted with food and shelter, we find that he was "eager to take a place in this demented, but partly secure society" of Jack's tribe. Contrasting with the theme of Ralph's innocence established at the beginning of the novel, his participation in Jack's tribe was unexpected as they were effectively enemies, fighting over resources and the other boys. Consequently, this sets him up to attack Simon when he comes out of the forest, with "no words and no movements but the tearing of teeth and claws." Golding's overturning of Ralph's ideals and innocence changed the position of how I felt. Even though he was supposed to be the hero of the story, he still lost control over the group and reverted to his primal instincts once the established civilization had broken down. He was supposed to be the protagonist, yet commits evil and demonstrates that everyone has a darkness within their hearts and that anyone can be overcome by the darkness within them. Golding positioned me to feel surprised through the unexpected actions taken by Ralph during this key event.

The author uses the arrival of the naval officer to position the reader to feel a sense of empathy for Ralph. At the end of the novel, the author uses the boys' rescue to show Ralph's development; at the beginning of the novel, he was established as a child, yet by the end of the novel, he seemed to have become an adult. By following them throughout the entire story, we get to understand the experiences the boys go through and feeling the relief that Ralph would have felt when he first saw the naval officer. After everything, when the naval officer arrived, he hadn't grasped the true nature of the situation. This is shown when he tells the boys that he "expected them to put up a better show than that," and describing the situation as "fun and games" after seeing the island ablaze and Ralph being hunted. Even with the killing of Simon, being hunted by Jack's tribe, and the death of Piggy, Ralph still refused to join Jack even though he was powerless against him. This refusal and his determination to hang on to his ideals of civilisation bought him back as the "good guy" and positioning the reader feel sympathetic to his cause. When he is finally rescued, "Ralph wept for the end of innocence, the darkness of man's heart and the fall through the air of a true, wise friend called Piggy." This act of introspection implies that he had matured, and realised the darkness within man's heart. Following this, the inconsiderate response of the naval officer seemed heartless and inconsiderate to me. Golding gives me a sense of empathy towards Ralph as his righteous ideals are shattered and his blind belief in adults changed, replaced by the cruel truth of our world. The change in Ralph's character and the words of the naval officer positioned me to feel empathetic towards Ralph.

Through the landing on the island, murder of Simon and Ralph's eventual rescue, the author positioned me to feel the skepticism, surprise and empathy towards Ralph. It helped the reader discern Ralph's growth from a child to an adult, but also displayed the darkness within man's heart.

---

