Set on an uninhabited island, William Golding’s Lord of the Flies details the experiences a group of boys have while stranded during a world war. Leaving behind their previous ideas of civilization, the boys descend into savagery, revealing the true nature of humans and the darkness within us all. Three key events in the novel made me feel strongly towards the main protagonist - Ralph - who develops into an adult by the end of the novel.

Initially, I felt sceptical towards Ralph and his abilities to lead the rest of the boys due to the way that he is portrayed by the author. After the key event of crash landing on the island, Ralph immediately shows his immaturity towards the situation, which makes me doubt his ability to lead the rest of the boys. When he realised that there were no adults on the island, "the delight of a realised ambition overcame him." Failing to grasp the true gravity of the predicament that they were in, he remained optimistic to the fact that there was a slim chance of his rescue. Performing headstands, teasing Piggy and playing in the ocean due to the absence of adults reveals his childish character. Although his actions made me feel sceptical of whether or not he would be able to lead
the boys, it also demonstrated his innocence and purity, setting him up as the good guy of the story. This idea is further developed by the author when Ralph claims that his dad will "come and rescue us." His blind belief in adults and futile attempts to set up society led me to question his abilities as a leader. It proved to me that Jack, with his confidence, or Piggy, with his intelligence would have been better than Ralph. The contrast between his innocent ideals and the true nature of humans made me feel strongly that he lacked the traits needed to lead the boys to rescue. As a result, Ralph's actions at the beginning of the novel positioned me to feel a sense of scepticism towards him and his abilities to lead the boys.

William Golding uses the key event of Ralph's participation in the murder of Simon to position us to feel surprised and question the nature of humanity. At the beginning of the novel, Golding describes him with "a mildness about his mouth and eyes that proclaimed no devil," establishing him as the protagonist of the story and highlighting his innocence and purity. This made me feel like I was on Ralph's side, supporting the "good guy" of the story. Yet, when tempted with food and shelter, we find that he was "eager to take a place in this demented, but partly secure society" of Jack's tribe. Contrasting with the theme of Ralph's innocence established at the beginning of the novel, his participation in Jack's tribe was unexpected as they were enemies. Additionally, this sets him up to attack Simon when he comes out of the forest, with "no words and no movements but the tearing of teeth and claws." Golding's overturning of Ralph's ideals and innocence changed the position of how I felt. Even though he was supposed to be the hero of the story, he still lost control over the group and reverted to his primal instincts once the established civilization had broken down. In the novel, Ralph symbolises order and civilisation; he was the leader of the boys and the hero of the story. However, once civilisation breaks down, the circumstances allowed him to revert back to his primal instincts and commit murder. Through Ralph’s actions, the author convinced me that everyone has a darkness within their heart and anyone, regardless of being a good person, can be overcome by evil. Golding positioned me to feel surprised through the unexpected actions taken by Ralph during this key event.

The author uses the arrival of the naval officer and the key event of the arrival of the naval officer to position me to feel a sense of empathy for Ralph. At the end of the novel, Golding uses the boys' rescue to show Ralph's development; at the beginning of the novel, he was established as a child, yet by the end of the novel, he seemed to have become an adult. By following them throughout the entire story, I was positioned to understand the experiences the boys went through, which led me to empathize with Ralph’s relief when he first encounters the naval officer. It was clear that the naval officer hadn’t grasped the true nature of the situation when he first arrived on the

burning island and saw Ralph being hunted. Golding shows this through his dialogue with Ralph, where the officer "expected them to put up a better show than that," and describing the situation as "fun and games". This response from the naval officer seemed heartless and inconsiderate to me after the trauma the boys had gone through. Contrasting to Ralph’s ideas at the start of the novel, the blindness of the naval officer revealed that even though he was an adult, he didn’t truly grasp happened on the island. This positioned me to realize that Ralph had become the adult in this situation and making me feel empathetic towards him. When he is finally rescued, "Ralph wept for the end of innocence, the darkness of man's heart and the fall through the air of a true, wise friend called Piggy." This act of introspection implies that he had matured, and realised the darkness within man's heart. Ralph had recognized the true nature of humanity, as well as his own actions. The “end of innocence” and “darkness of man’s heart” suggests a loss of his child-like purity and discernment of the evil nature of humanity from Ralph. Additionally, he also recognises Piggy’s value of thinking, looking past appearances and describing him as a true, wise friend. Golding positions me to feel a sense of empathy towards Ralph as his righteous ideals are shattered and his blind belief in adults changed after the suffering he goes through on the island. It changes my perspective of Ralph from a child who just wanted to have fun to the only rational adult in a chaotic and savage society. This change in Ralph's character and the words of the naval officer positioned me to feel empathetic towards him.

Through the landing on the island, murder of Simon and the boys’ eventual rescue, the author positioned me to feel strongly about the main character. These key events led me to feel the emotions of scepticism, surprise, and empathy towards Ralph. It helped me discern Ralph's growth from a child to an adult, but also displayed the darkness within man's heart. His transformation teaches us the challenges of maturing and the complexities of human nature. The author warns us of our inherent evil and highlights the importance of structure and civilisation in our society.