Lord of the Flies, by William Golding is a novel about a group of boys stranded on an uninhabited island. Throughout the novel, the boys gradually descend into savagery and Golding uses 'the beast' to symbolize the darkness within the boys.

An idea that stood out to me was 'the beast' which was first introduced near the beginning of the novel when one of the smaller boys claimed that he saw a “…beastie, the snake thing.” I can picture myself having the same response as the rest of the boys in the story - disbelief and denial of its existence. Even though they convinced themselves that it was only a part of their imaginations, their fear of the beast continued to grow to the point where they killed Simon while chanting "kill the beast..." This is similar to what the world lived through during the Covid-19 pandemic, where changes to what we were previously accustomed to led to increased fear and paranoia, causing social unrest, panic buying, and increased prejudice. This makes me feel that Golding's portrayal of the fight between good and evil in the book may seem true to life, shown through the impact "the beast" had on our own society. The descent to savagery in both Lord of the Flies and the real world shows both the inherent nature of self-preservation as well as the darkness within humans. Although Golding's interpretation of human nature is fundamentally accurate, I question whether the evil inside us would actually develop to the extent of what is illustrated in the story.

A character that I found interesting was Simon and how his innocent and virtuous personality contrasted with the evil that develops in the rest of the boys. The inclusion of Simon challenges the idea that evil will always prevail over good, as throughout the story he manages to suppress the evil nature of humans within him. Simon displayed to me that evil in the story isn't an external force, but rather an inherent aspect of human nature when he presents the idea at their meeting that “maybe there is a beast, maybe it's only us.” not only showing Simon’s empathy towards the other kids but also his insight into human nature. His insight into human nature and empathy towards the other kids represents the innate goodness within each of us. In this way, I feel like Simon is comparable to Jesus in the bible, as they are both killed after trying to lay down the truth and consequently used as a scapegoat. It seems to me that there is a trend of good people being taken advantage of by those in power. This makes me wonder the role a scapegoat may play in our society today. Why is it that we need someone to blame for our responsibilities and to deflect our fears? While hallucinating, the beast told Simon 'I'm a part of you,' proving that although Simon also had the darkness inside of him, he doesn’t lose his morals like the other boys as he suppresses his own ‘beast.’ I believe that Golding's inclusion of Simon in the novel is also accurate to the wider world where there are both Simons and Rogers: people who resist their internal darkness and people who gave in to evil. It irritated me that the people who did good were killed or sacrificed while the people who did the bad things managed to escape without punishment, which sometimes also happens in the wider world.

The conclusion I came to from reading Lord of the Flies was that although exaggerated, the ideas that Golding presented were reasonably accurate. Golding's portrayal of 'the beast' reflects the darkness within us, while characters like Simon challenge the idea that evil always prevails in a person.
