Christianity
Jesus summarised the entire law and ten commandments into the 2 great commandments, which is the foundation on how Christians live their lives. It's a summary of Jesus' teaching and he tells us to 'Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength.' and 'Love your neighbour as yourself.' By following these commandments, Christians can strive to be more like Jesus in lives, and it guides us in our relationship with God. The first of the great commandments can be shown through prayer, worship and  going church, and helps us to build a relationship with God, letting him guide us in our lives. The second commandment shows us how to treat other people in our lives and serves as a moral compass. By loving others as ourselves, we are told to treat others how we want to be treated, thereby giving us an example on how we should live life and put into action the teachings of Jesus. Jesus also tells us to go and make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them, and teaching them the things that Jesus has commanded us to do. This can be done through many ways such as mission or evangelism. This influences a Christians life by encouraging them to spread the gospel and telling others about the teachings of Jesus. It is a personal calling to all of us to live in a way that reflects the teaching of Jesus. 
Grace is the undeserved love that we receive from God given to us through his son Jesus. Us being saved is through God's grace rather than faith, you don't need to do anything to receive it. Since we believe that we are saved through God's grace, we have no right to boast about our works or  actions. Instead, we should live life showing love and compassion to others just like how God showed grace to us. Faith is to believe in things you don't see or in our case, belief that there is a God. This gives Christians a personal relationship with God and hope for a future. By putting our  faith in him, we know that we have someone to depend on and that he always has a plan for us. To be holy means to live according to God and to be set apart for his purposes and living in accordance with his will. As we are set apart for God, we should live how God wants us to live. 

Islam
Muslims are guided by the 5 pillars of Islam, which they think helps them become closer with Allah. The first pillar is declaration or Shahadah, and is when you have to proclaim that Allah is God and Muhammed is his prophet. They have to accept that it is true which leads them away from idols or false gods, bringing them closer to Allah. 
The second pillar is Zakat or giving/tithing. They use this money to help the poor and obey god, acknowledging that since everything comes from God and it will be gone when we die, they don't need to hold on to it. This detaches them from material things so they focus more on spiritual wealth. 
The third pillar is Salat or prayer. Muslims have to pray 5 times a day, at dawn, dusk, midday, afternoon and night. They recite a set of prayers that unite the mind, soul and body. It detaches them from the affairs of this world so they can focus on Allah, and sets a rhythm for each day. 
The fourth pillar is Sawm or fasting, which happens during the month of Ramadan. They aren't allowed to eat or drink between dawn and dusk, instead, they have to obey and worship Allah and appreciate what they have. This also detaches them from material and physical desires and helps them focus on Allah. 
The last pillar is Hajj or pilgrimage, which they say every Muslim should do at least once in their lifetimes, by making a pilgrimage to the birthplace of Muhammed the prophet. It helps foster a sense of community between the Muslims as they all stand together praising Allah as equals.

Hinduism
The four aims of life in Hinduism are Dharma, Artha, Kama and Moksha. 
Dharma means to act virtuously and righteously, to perform their duties. The aim is to fulfil your duties or responsibilities in life, which could be different for different people. This leads a Hindu to live a good life by performing good deeds and doing what is right.  
The second aim of Hinduism is Artha, which means to get material wealth by righteous and ethical means. They pursue this because they claim without material wealth, they cannot focus on the other 3 aims. It also includes defending or keeping what you already have. This encourages an individuals well being and worldly possessions, but may result in people being focused more on Artha compared to anything else. 
The third aim is Kama, which means pleasure or desires. This includes various types of human desires such as romantic love, physical pleasure or emotional fulfilment. Hindus believe that they need to balance their desires with their moral principles and responsibilities in life, which will increase their well being. 
The fourth aim is Moksha or liberation from the cycle of reincarnation. This can be achieved through the 4 yogas, and is the final goal for Hindus. They are returned to Brahman, which is like a droplet of water returning to the ocean. They achieve this by balancing out their karma, which is the consequences for their actions, and when it is balanced, they will achieve Moksha.
Ahimsa means non-violence and is what all Hindus abide by. They believe that since everyone has a part of Brahman within them, and doing violent deeds towards others will lead to bad karma. 