### Christianity
The resurrection of Jesus Christ is one of the most important parts of Christianity, as without it, there is no Christianity. This is shown when Paul said that if Jesus was no resurrected, then all the preaching was in vain. 
His resurrection shows that his death on the cross had led to our sins being forgiven, due to him taking our place. Paul also wrote that if Christ had not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. By dying for us, the relationship between us and God was restored, so now we are able to have a relationship with God through Jesus. It also proved that Jesus was God. Not only did Jesus predict his death and resurrection, he also conquered death, something only God can do, proving the power of God and his sovereignty. 
It also confirmed that prophesies from the Old testament as well as his own predictions, proving that he was the prophesized messiah. Through the resurrection, these claims are proven. In Isiah it says that we were bought peace from him being punished and we were healed by his wounds. 


Christians believe that death is not the end, but life after death. The destination that awaits Christians who accept Jesus Christ is heaven, a perfect place of happiness and peace. This is shown in John where he says that The ones who believe in Jesus will live, even though they die. According to non-believers, nothing happens after death and you will just die. But the bible says that the destination that awaits non believers who reject Jesus is hell, a place of eternal punishment and suffering. 

### Islam 
In Islam, paradise or Jannah is similar to heaven, described as a place of eternal bliss, with beautiful gardens and freedom from thirst and hunger. 
Believers of Islam are promised to be able to get to paradise if they do good deeds, which will be judged on by Allah on the day of Judgement. This affects how they live, as well as their thoughts and actions. It motivates them to do good deeds and to be righteous since if they are, they will be rewarded, but if they aren't, they face punishment in hell, for disobeying Allah's commandments. This motivates them to not do bad things. There are also multiple levels of heaven and hell, judged on how good/bad you were. 
If you are a believer and you did good deeds during your life and followed Allah, then you would be able to enter paradise. If you did bad in your life, but you were still a believer, Allah could eventually let you enter paradise. You would also go to paradise if you died fighting in a holy war.
If you were a non-believer or an enemy of Islam, you had no chance of going to paradise and you would be sent to hell for eternity. 

### Hinduism
Samsara is the cycle of reincarnation, which is being reborn after you die. The soul is reborn into different things each time you die, and it will continue until you reach moksha. Moksha is when you are set free from the cycle of reincarnation, which can be achieved by doing the right thing and getting good karma. Karma is the idea that every action you do will lead to a consequence. If you do good deeds, you will have good stuff happen to you and if you do bad stuff, you will also have bad things happen to you. Karma could be experience immediately, or in another life, and can lead you to be born into suffering or an easy life. There are 4 ways of getting good karma and attaining moksha, such as giving to others, studying, exercise and meditation, or worship. When you are freed from the cycle, attaining Moksha, you reach Nirvana, which is similar to heaven and paradise.
The idea of Karma leads Hindus to aim to do good things to get more good Karma. Since they understand that they will receive consequences to their actions, it encourages them to do the right thing. 