Write your question here: Analyse how a key event/s in the text positioned you to feel strongly about a character.

Write your essay here:

Set on an uninhabited island, William Golding's Lord of the Flies details the experiences a group of boys have while stranded during a world war. Leaving behind their previous ideas of civilisation, the boys' descend into savagery, revealing the true nature of humans and the darkness within us all. Three pivotal moments in the novel made me change my feelings towards the main protagonist, Ralph, as the events he experiences leads him to develop to an adult by the end. 

I felt skeptical towards Ralph and his abilities after the boys' decide to make him the leader at the beginning of the novel. After they crash landed on the island Ralph shows his immaturity and naivety towards the situation. When he first realised that there were no adults on the island, 'the delight of a realised ambition overcame him' as he fails to grasp the true nature and gravity of the predicament they were in, instead, indulging in the absence of any grown ups. His childish character also shows when he claims that his dad will 'come and rescue us,' believing that adults were able to solve any problem. Consequently, his attempts to set up society, led me to question his abilities as a leader and giving me a sense of skepticism towards his decisions he makes. The difference between Ralph's innocent ideals and the true nature of humans showed that he lacked the traits needed to lead the boys to their rescue. As a result, as the boys crash landing on the island and Ralph's attempts to set up society left me feeling skeptical towards him. 


Ralph's participation in the murder of Simon was both unexpected and disappointing. At the beginning of the novel, Golding described him with "eyes that proclaimed no devil," and a "mildness about his mouth," setting him up as the hero of the story. Yet, when tempted with food and shelter, he was "eager to take a place in this demented, but partly secure society" that Jack had created. This leads them to attack Simon when he comes out of the forest, "leapt onto the beast, screamed, struck, bit, tore." This made me feel disillusioned towards Ralph, as he is overcome from the darkness in his heart, falling victim to his human desires even though he was supposed to be the good guy. This event also marked Ralph's loss of control over the boys, as they join Jack's tribe and deny Ralph as their leader showing how humans will revert to their primal instincts once the structure of civilization breaks down. Through the killing of Simon, Golding demonstrated how everyone had darkness within them, which disheartened me seeing Ralph committing evil. 

The arrival of the naval officer at the very end of the novel evoked my feelings of empathy for Ralph. When the naval officer arrived, he did not realise the true nature of the situation, telling the boys that he "expected them to put up a better show than that." After their killing of Simon, being hunted by Jack's tribe, and the death of Piggy, Ralph still refused to join Jack even though he was powerless against him, but kept hanging on to civilization. After the arrival of the officer, 'Ralph wept for the end of innocence, the darkness of man's heart, and the fall through the air of the true, wise friend called Piggy,' showing that he had matured and realised the darkness within man's heart. This gives me a sense of empathy towards Ralph as his righteous ideals are shattered and his blind belief in adults denounced. The inconsiderate response of the naval officer also made me feel sorry for Ralph. Calling his experience on the island "fun and games", while not truly understanding the situation seemed heartless and cruel. Through the words of the naval officer and the development of Ralph, Golding positioned me to feel a strong sense of empathy for Ralph. 

Through the landing no the island,  murder of Simon and his eventual rescue, the author positioned me to feel different emotions of skepticism, disillusionment and empathy towards Ralph. Ralph's fight against the darkness within his heart and his development from a child to the adult made him a complex character and left a lasting impression