Write your question here:

Analyse how a key event/s in the text positioned you to feel strongly about a character.

Write your essay here:

Set on an uninhabited island, William Golding's Lord of the Flies details the experiences a group of boys have while stranded during a world war. Leaving behind their previous ideas of civilization, the boys' descend into savagery, revealing the true nature of humans and the darkness within us all. Three key events in the novel made me feel strongly towards the main protagonist, Ralph, as the events he experiences leads him to develop to an adult by the end.

I felt skeptical towards Ralph and his abilities after the boys' decide to make him the leader at the beginning of the novel. After they crash landed on the island, Ralph shows his immaturity towards the situation. When he realised that there were no adults on the island, "the delight of a realised ambition overcame him," as he failed to grasp the true gravity of the predicament that they were in. His childish character shows from his joy due to the absence of any grown ups, as well as when he claims that his dad will "come and rescue us." His blind belief in adults and unfruitful attempts to set up society led me to question his abilities as a leader and gave me a sense of skepticism towards the decisions he makes. The difference between his innocent ideals and the true nature of humans proved to me that he lacked the traits needed to lead the boys to rescue. As a result of the boys crash landing on the island and Ralph's attempts to set up society, I was left with a sense of skepticism towards him.

Ralph's participation in the murder of Simon was both unexpected and made me feel disillusioned. At the beginning of the novel, Golding describes him with "a mildness about his mouth and eyes that proclaimed no devil," setting him up as the protagonist of the story. Yet, when tempted with food and shelter, he was "eager to take a place in this demented, but partly secure society" of Jack's tribe. This sets him up to attack Simon when comes out of the forest, Ralph and the rest of the boys attack Simon, with "no words and no movements but the tearing of teeth and claws." Being overcome by the darkness within him surprised me as he was supposed to be the good guy and protagonist of the novel. Even though he was supposed to be the hero of the story, he still lost control over the group and reverted to his primal instincts once the established civilization had broken down. Through the killing of Simon, Golding surprised me and made me feel disillusioned towards Ralph as he commits evil, proving that everyone has a darkness within their hearts.

The arrival of the naval officer at the very end of the novel led me to feel empathy for Ralph. When the naval officer arrived, he did not realise the true nature of the situation, telling the boys that he "expected them to put up a better show than that." After their killing of Simon, being hunted by Jack's tribe, and the death of Piggy, Ralph still refused to join Jack even though he was powerless against him, but kept hanging on to civilization. When he is finally rescued and the officer arrives, "Ralph wept for the end of innocence, the darkness of man's heart, and the fall through the air of the true, wise friend called Piggy," showing that he had matured and realised the darkness within man's heart. This gives me a sense of empathy towards Ralph as his righteous ideals are shattered and his blind belief in adults denounced, replaced by the truth of our world. The inconsiderate response of the naval officer also made me feel sorry for Ralph, as calling his experience on the island "fun and games", while not truly understanding the situation seemed heartless and cruel to me. Through the words of the naval officer and the development of Ralph, Golding positioned me to feel a strong sense of empathy for Ralph.

Through the landing on the island, murder of Simon and his eventual rescue, the author positioned me to feel the different emotions of skepticism, disillusionment and empathy towards Ralph.