Personal Response 4 Draft 1

What is a hero? Set in Gotham City, Batman: The Dark Knight by Christopher Nolan explores the ideas of good and evil, and challenges [[SM1]](#_msocom_1) what our idea of a hero really is. To stop the Joker and the other gangs in Gotham City, we are introduced to Batman, a masked vigilante who is outside of the law who does what he wants, and Harvey Dent, the upright district attorney who puts criminals behind bars the lawful [[SM2]](#_msocom_2) way.

One of the main themes in the novel was the idea of doing bad things to get a good outcome. As a vigilante in a mask, Batman can do whatever he wants; he is anonymous and has no limits. During the movie, we constantly witness him committing illegal acts such as destroying cars, property and injuring people to achieve his goals of catching the Joker. It interested me that even though he was the “hero” of the movie, he still committed crimes and got away with it. "Beautiful. Unethical. Dangerous...This is too much power for one person," is what Lucius Fox said when he realised Batman had turned all the phones in Gotham City into a microphone. What he did to spy on the population would certainly be illegal in our world, yet he had no repercussions whatsoever. He had the power, and he was willing to use it to get what he wanted. This is similar to USA in World War 2, where they dropped atomic bombs on Nagasaki and Hiroshima to bring an end to the war. There was a possibility that ending the war sooner could have led to less casualties, but the bombings still took 100,000-200,000 innocent civilian lives. Like Batman, America received no consequences for their actions, even though what they did would be against the Geneva convention and a war crime in today’s world[[SM3]](#_msocom_3) .

A character that stood out to me was the Joker, who is described by Heath Ledger (his actor) as a "psychopathic, mass murdering, schizophrenic clown with zero empathy." Throughout the movie, his main motive was to and get people to break their moral code as well as societal order, because "The only sensible way to live in this world is without rules." This reminds me of Roger from Lord of the Flies, who wants to break the societal order, showing his true colours and enjoying the freedom of not having any rules. By the end of the novel, he ends up like the Joker, with no moral code and willing to torture others for his own enjoyment. When I saw them, I questioned the feasibility of these characters and their depictions of someone with no moral code. In contrast to the crime ridden Gotham city, being sheltered in a country such as New Zealand with laws and societal order means that I have never encountered anyone without morals, leading for someone like The Joker to seem more like a fictional villain to me, and making him hard to believe. In the movie, The Joker also shows the power that fear can have on people and its ability to control and manipulate others. “Look what I did to this city with a few drums of gas and a couple of bullets.” By threatening the people of Gotham City, he was able to turn ordinary civilians into murderers, convincing them to kill an innocent man or tens of thousands of people. The use of fear is constantly used in our world today, from trivial things such as a fake countdown timer for a discount on a purchase to made up threats of war or terrorism to justify military action. This highlighted to me how I am constantly exposed to the influence of fearmongering without even realising it and it could even be controlling my own actions.

The Dark Knight reveals the true nature of humanity, offering hope that there may still be good instead of evil and that some people will hold to their morals in the worst of circumstances. The evil in the movie can be seen to a lesser extent in our world today, without us even realising it. [[SM4]](#_msocom_4) 

---

 [[SM1]](#_msoanchor_1)challenges

 [[SM2]](#_msoanchor_2)Nice start

 [[SM3]](#_msoanchor_3)Wow!  Very good.  Love the link to the real world

 [[SM4]](#_msoanchor_4)Superb response.  Hand in as is