1.       Compare how the three systems are similar/different in how they achieve efficient as exchange

2.       One major advantage of the insect gas exchange system is the presence and use of air sacs. These air sacs serve two major functions. Firstly, the air sacs help to force the air through the gas exchange system. This helps to assist with the ventilation of oxygen and carbon dioxide into and out of the gas exchange system and means that the oxygen is delivered to the cells at high rates for respiration. These air sacs can also store extra air inside the gas exchange system of the insect. This is useful when an insect is in a dry environment and needs to close its spiracles to retain moisture. With the spiracles close fresh air cannot enter the tracheal system, so strong air in the air sacs an allow insects to continue performing gas exchange efficiently, for a short while. Insects can therefore continue to have access to enough oxygen to perform respiration until spiracles reopen, while also not losing moisture to the environment. Fish and mammals do not have this adaptation. In mammals, this is a limitation as it means that they must constantly expose their gas exchange system to the external environment as they must continually open their nose and mouth to access fresh air. As a result, humans breathe out about one cup of water per day. They must therefore expend a lot of energy keeping their gas exchange system moist. Fortunately for fish, this lack of air sacs is not a limitation as they don’t have to worry about keeping their gas exchange surface moist due to the habitat that they live int. Being constantly bathed in water means that fish do not need structure, like insects do, to store oxygen and retain moisture.

-  Advantage compared to both fish and mammals in depth, if they don’t have the advantage, what is the reason - limitation, if they don’t need the advantage, why not