Significant question:

The understanding of what happens when I die according to Christianity and Moderate Islam? 

Write approximately 1000-1500 words.

Start writing from here:

One of the most important aspects of Mainstream Protestant Christianity and Moderate Islam is the idea of life after death and what happens when you die. This affects their daily lives, as well as having wider implications such as around war and suffering. 

In Christianity, life after death is facilitated by the resurrection of Jesus Christ, as without it, there is no life after death and no Christianity. This is shown when Paul said that if Jesus was not resurrected, all the preaching would be in vain. 

His resurrection shows that his death on the cross has led to our sins being forgiven, as Jesus took our sins and took our place on the cross. Paul wrote that if Christ had not been raised, a person's faith would be futile and you would still be in your sins. 

By dying for us, our relationship with God was restored and how we can have a relationship with him through Jesus. This is due to him taking our place and dying for our sins, acting as a bridge between us and God so we can have a relationship with him. 

His death also proved that Jesus was God. Not only did Jesus predict his death and resurrection, he also conquered death, which is something that only God can do. This proved the power of God and his sovereignty as well as confirming the prophecies in the old testament. In Isiah, it says that we were bought peace from him being punished and we were healed by his wounds. Therefore, the resurrection is the foundation of our faith, and if it did not happen, our sins would not be forgiven and we would not be able to have a relationship with God. 

Both Muslims and Christians believe that there is life after death, and that you can go to Heaven/Paradise, a place of perfect happiness and peace, or Hell, a place of suffering. day of judgement

The destination that awaits Christians who follow Jesus is heaven, a perfect place of happiness and peace. This is shown in John where he says that "The ones who believe in me (Jesus) will live, even though they die." So if you put your faith in Jesus, strive to live your life like him, and repent for your sins, you would be able to go to heaven and gain eternal life. 

Like how Christians who follow Jesus get saved, in Islam, if you followed Allah, you would eventually be able to enter paradise (after you had suffered enough in hell). If you did not believe in Allah or was an enemy of Islam, you would not be able to go to paradise and would be sent to hell for eternity. This can be seen in the Qu'ran 89:27-30, where it says "O soul who is at rest, return to thy Lord, well-pleased with Him, well-pleasing Him. So enter among My servants and enter My garden." The idea of paradise in Islam is similar to heaven, described as a place of eternal bliss, with beautiful gardens and freedom from thirst or hunger. To get to paradise, Muslims have to do good deeds in their life, with the journey to paradise described as a narrow bridge with hell underneath. If you are weighed down by your sins, you would fall off the bridge into hell. Doing good deeds can be done through following the pillars (fasting, tithing, praying, pilgrimage and declaration). 

A wider implication of life after death for both Christians and Muslisms can be seen in their ideas of war. For Christians, a war is justified when it has a right cause, 