Significant question:

The understanding of what happens when I die according to Christianity and Moderate Islam? 

Write approximately 1000-1500 words.

Start writing from here:

One of the most important aspects of Mainstream Protestant Christianity and Moderate Islam is the idea of life after death and what happens when you die. This affects their daily lives, as well as having wider implications such as around war and suffering. 

Both Muslims and Christians believe that there is life after death, and that you can either go to a place of Heaven or Paradise, a place of perfect happiness, peace and eternal communion with God, or Hell, a place of suffering and punishment. They also both believe that there will be a day of judgement, where we will be judged by God or Allah, and if you reject God or Allah you would not be able to go to Heaven. 

In Christianity, life after death is made possible through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christians believe that those who follow Jesus will go to heaven, a place of eternal happiness and peace. This is shown in John 11:25, where Jesus says, "The ones who believe in me will live, even though they die." By putting faith in Jesus and living according to his teachings, we can receive salvation and gain eternal life in heaven. Jesus' sacrificial death restored humanity's relationship with God. By taking our place and dying for our sins, Jesus enabled our sins to be forgiven and bridged the gap between us and God, allowing us to have a personal relationship with Him through Jesus.

Like how Christians who follow Jesus get saved, in Islam, if you followed Allah, you would  be able to go to Jannah or Paradise. If you did not believe in Allah or was an enemy of Islam, you would not be able to go to paradise and would be sent to hell for eternity. This can be seen in the Qu'ran 2:28, where it says "How can you disbelieve in Allah when you were dead and He brought you to life; then He will cause you to die, and again will bring you to life; and then to Him you will be returned." The idea of paradise in Islam is similar to heaven, described as a place of eternal bliss, with beautiful gardens and freedom from thirst or hunger. To get to paradise, Muslims have to do good deeds in their life, with the journey to paradise described as a narrow bridge with hell underneath. If you are weighed down by your sins, you would fall off the bridge into hell. Though, if you believed in Allah, Muslims believe that you would still be able to return to heaven after having suffered enough in hell. Salvation for Muslims can be achieved through faith in Allah, as well as doing good deeds and following the 5 pillars (fasting, tithing, praying, pilgrimage and declaration). 

Both Christianity and Islam believe in the resurrection of the dead but there are some mayor differences. For example, in Christianity we believe that Jesus as God and the only one who can save us through our faith in him, but in Islam, Jesus is only a prophet and not God. This is because Muslims don't believe in the trinity, rather there is only one God. Qu'ran 2:163 says: "Your God is only One God. There is no god worthy of worship except Him - the Most Compassionate, Most Merciful." This means that for Christians, we are saved by Jesus and the grace of God, but in Islam they are saved by the deeds that they did in their lives, their adherence to the five pillars and their faith in Allah. 



A wider implication of life after death for both Christians and Muslisms can be seen in their ideas of war. For Christians, a war is justified when it has a right cause, 