Significant question:

The understanding of what happens when I die according to Christianity and Moderate Islam?

Write approximately 1000-1500 words.

Start writing from here:

One of the most important aspects of Mainstream Protestant Christianity and Moderate Islam is the idea of life after death and what happens when you die. This affects their daily lives, as well as having wider implications such as around war, women and suffering.

Both Muslims and Christians believe that there is life after death, and that you can either go to a place of Heaven or Paradise, a place of perfect happiness, peace and eternal communion with God, or Hell, a place of suffering and punishment. They also both believe that there will be a day of judgement, where we will be judged, and if you had rejected God or Allah during your life, you would not be able to go to Heaven.

In Christianity, life after death is made possible through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Since we all have sinned and fallen short of God's standard, it is impossible for us to enter heaven on our own merit. Jesus died on the cross to take our place and pay the price for humanity's sins, therefore if we put our faith in him, we can receive forgiveness for our sins. This is shown in John 11:25, where Jesus says, "The ones who believe in me will live, even though they die." By putting faith in Jesus and living according to his teachings, we can receive salvation and gain eternal life. Jesus' sacrificial death restored humanity's relationship with God. By taking our place and dying for our sins, Jesus enabled our sins to be forgiven and bridged the gap between us and God, allowing us to have a personal relationship with Him through Jesus. To gain salvation, Christians also have to repent for their sins and seek for forgiveness, which is shown in 1 John 1:9, which says: "If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." This also means to strive to life a virtuous life, as our faith can be seen in our deeds.

Like how Christians who follow Jesus can gain salvation, in Islam, if you followed Allah, you would be saved and go to Jannah or Paradise. If you did not believe in Allah or was an enemy of Islam, you would not be able to go to paradise and would be sent to hell for eternity. There are 7 levels of both heaven and hell and which level you go to is determined by the deeds you did during your life. This can be seen in the Qu'ran 2:28, where it says "How can you disbelieve in Allah when you were dead and He brought you to life; then He will cause you to die, and again will bring you to life; and then to Him you will be returned." The idea of paradise in Islam is similar to heaven, described as a place of eternal bliss, with beautiful gardens and freedom from thirst or hunger. To get to paradise, Muslims have to do good deeds in their life, with the journey to paradise described as a narrow bridge with hell underneath. When you die, you would remain until the day of judgement, where you would eventually be resurrected and Allah will come and judge whether you go to paradise or hell. If you are weighed down by your sins, you would fall off the bridge into hell. Though, if you believed in Allah, Muslims believe that you would still be able to return to heaven after having suffered enough in hell. Salvation for Muslims can be achieved through faith in Allah, as well as doing good deeds and following the 5 pillars (fasting, tithing, praying, pilgrimage and declaration).

Both Christianity and Islam believe in a life after death but there are some major differences. For example, in Christianity we believe that Jesus is God and the only one who can save us through our faith in him, but in Islam, Jesus is only a prophet and not God. This is because Muslims don't believe in the trinity, rather there is only one God. Qu'ran 2:163 says: "Your God is only One God. There is no god worthy of worship except Him - the Most Compassionate, Most Merciful." This means that for Christians, we are saved by faith Jesus and our deeds are evidence of our faith, but in Islam they are judged by the deeds that they did in their lives, their adherence to the five pillars and their faith in Allah. In Islam, it is believed that there was no original sin and that everyone is born pure and sin-less, in contrast, Christians believe that everyone is born with sin due to the actions of Adam and Eve.

The significance of their beliefs can be seen in the way Christians and Muslims live their lives. As both religions believe that there is life after death and that you would be judged on the day of judgement, this affects their actions and how they live their lives.

In Christianity we put our faith in Jesus and strive to live the way according to his teaching and how he lived his life. He summarised the way we should live in Matthew: "Love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind." and "Love your neighbour as yourself." By following these commandments, Christians can strive to be more like Jesus in their lives, and it guides us in our relationship with God. It also shows us how to treat other people in our lives and serves as our moral compass as well as the basis for the laws of western nations. By loving others as ourselves, we are told to treat others how we want to be treated, thereby giving us an example on how we should live life and put into action the teachings of Jesus. Unlike Islam, we are saved by our faith, not our works, due to our faith in Jesus. Our faith can be shown through having a relationship with him, through reading the bible, going to church and worship. Even though Christians are judged on their faith rather than their deeds, following Jesus' teachings leads to doing good deeds. 

The requirement for Muslims to get saved is faith that Allah is God and Muhammed is his prophet, but they also get judged on the deeds that they did during their life. This affects how Muslims live as well as their thoughts and actions. It motivates them to do good deeds, follow the 5 pillars and to be righteous, since they would be rewarded with paradise, otherwise they face punishment in hell. A difference from Christianity is that if you believed in Allah but still did bad deeds during your lives, you would eventually be able to enter paradise after you had suffered enough. An exception to this is if you died fighting in a holy war, then you would immediately go to paradise, even though you killed other people. Along with the good deeds and faith, Muslims also have to follow the 5 pillars: Shahadah, a declaration that Allah is God and Muhammed his prophet. Salah, prayer, which is done at dawn, dusk, midday, afternoon, and night. Zakat, tithing, which they have to tithe 2.5%. Sawm, fasting during Ramadan between dawn and dusk. Hajj, a pilgrimage to Mecca, the birthplace of Muhammed. By doing these 5 things each day, their faith in Allah is solidified and reminds them that the material things that they have are all from Allah, and to appreciate what they have.

A wider implication of life after death for both Christians and Muslims can be seen in their ideas of war. For Christians, a war is justified when it has a just cause: to protect yourself from attack.

In Christianity, the belief in eternal judgement and going to Heaven or Hell can influence war. The main criteria that makes war just for many Christians is when a war is fought as protection from external attack. This can be seen in Article 51 of the United Nations Charter where it says: "Nothing in the present Charter shall impair the inherent right of individual or collective self-defense if a armed attack occurs against a Member of the United Nations." We justify war as a means to defend our faith and protect others from evil, however, the bible also teaches us to love our enemies and strive for a peaceful resolution. This can be seen in Jesus' teachings in Matthew 5:44 where he says: "But I tell you: love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you." This means many Christians also to advocate for nonviolent and pacifist solutions to the problems, acting as a deterrent against outright war. This can be seen in western politics in the modern era, where countries are opting for more peaceful resolutions than fighting, like what happened during the cold war. Or only going to war for self defence, such as NATO during the russian/ukraine conflict. As Ukraine is not part of Nato, they are only sending them aid instead directly fighting, which they won't do unless they themselves are attacked.

Similarly, in Islam, the belief in an afterlife also influences their ideas on war. Jihad, meaning struggle or strive, which can be shown not only through war but also through kindness and doing good deeds. The main reasons Islam fights is to protect the weak, humble and oppressed. It is seen as a last resort can it should be just, with good intention. This can be seen when Muhammad said: "O people! Do not desire a combat with the enemy, but pray to Allah for safety. But when you are face to face with the enemy be steadfast." Though, Jihad must be launched against an enemy who attacks Muslims, to defend their own faith and fight against oppression. In Islam, when you die fighting in a holy war, you wouldn't go to hell even though you killed other people, instead you would go straight to paradise. This motivates Muslims to fight for their religion and fight oppression since it would lead to paradise and bring them reward. This could be seen in the 9/11 attacks, as Osama Bin Laden called a Jihad against the US, for taking Islamic territory and what they did during the Gulf War. This is what compelled the hijackers to take their own lives and the lives of thousands of others, thinking that they would get rewards in the afterlife.  

Both Christian and Islamic teachings emphasize the importance of ethical conduct in war. The idea that ultimately, your actions will be judged by God or Allah on the day of judgement means that people will aim for peace and have the right intentions. This can be seen in the Qu'ran where it says "The reward of deeds depends on the intentions and every person will get the reward according to what he has intended. This also affects the way that they act during war, with both having similar ideas that non-combatants and the wounded and prisoners of war should be treated well.

Another wider implication for both Christianity and Islam is women, who both believe are equal in the eyes of God. This is because when you are judged, your gender would be irrelevant, and the only thing you would be judged on is either your faith in Jesus for Christianity, or the deeds you did and faith in Allah for Islam.

In Protestant Christianity, there are mainly 2 views on the role of women. The first view is the traditional view, which has the idea that women work in submission to the man at home, in church or in society in a complimentary role. The second view is the egalitarian view which says that women have the same role as men and can both can have mutual submission and independence. Regardless of the view, women are encouraged to show their faith to Christ and have the freedom to exercise their spiritual gifts. The belief that men and women are equal in the afterlife highlights the idea of equality between genders in protestant Christianity. This can encourage more egalitarian views in the modern church and society, promoting the idea that women and men should have equal opportunities and can influence the roles of women in society. In egalitarian churches, this has led to more women being ministers, pastors, and leaders, which is in contrast to catholic church where women are not allowed to be ordained. These ideas are also a foundation for advocating for women's rights and in our society today. The understanding that women are equally valued by God can lead to a more equal society, where women are given the same opportunities as men. This can be seen in the history of society as western countries with Christianity were one of the first to give women rights, and there are still many advocates for gender equality in our world today.

Similar to Christianity, women are seen as equal to men, which can be seen in the Qu'ran 16:97: “To whoever, male or female, does good deeds and has faith, We shall give a good life and reward them according to the best of their actions.” Like the traditional view of Christianity, Muslims believe that women are equal but not identical to men. They have different roles in society and work complimentary to men. An example of this is how women dress, with many women in Islamic countries wearing a veil and dressing modestly, even though they are not forced to. Another example is in the financial responsibilities, where women only get one share of the inheritance compared to the two given to a son, but they are not obligated to earn or spend any money on housing, food or general expenses. The belief that women and men both have equal spiritual worth can impact their roles in society and in religious life. Since they are equally accountable as men when they will eventually be judged, they are encouraged to pursue education and participate in political and social services. 

Although they both believe that women are equal to men, there are still differences in the way women are treated in both Islam and Christianity. This can be seen in marriage for Muslims, where, like the traditional Christian views, should first obey God, and then her husband. A difference is that a Muslim man can have more than one wife, with the prophet Muhammed having 4 wives at the same time. Muslim men are also able to get a divorce without any conditions and the women would lose custody of their kids automatically. Although this contradicts the idea that both women and men are equal under the eyes of Allah, it is permitted in some Muslim countries as a compromise as before Islam, women had no rights at all and were treated like objects. Some Muslims traditions have misinterpreted the Qu'ran which leads to women being mistreated instead of protected as originally intended.

Another wider implication is suffering, a universal human experience for both Christians and Muslims, with some suffering caused by humans and others due to nature. People may question the reason for suffering but in both Christianity and Islam, we both believe that there is a reason for this suffering.

In Christianity, God is described as All loving, all knowing and merciful, yet people still suffer in this world. Although we might not realize it, suffering can be beneficial to us and help us deepen our faith in Jesus and therefore what we are judged on when we die. One reason for this suffering is to deepen your relationship with God, and help develop empathy and patience. This can be seen in the story of Job in the bible, where he loses everything, including his money, livestock, children and he ends up with painful sores. Through all that, Job still trusted in God and praised him, saying "naked I came from my mother's womb and naked I will depart, the Lord gave and the Lord has taken away; may the name of the lord be praised." After he endured all the suffering, he ended up rewarded with twice as much as what he had before. The idea that everything in this material world will eventually disappear and what really matters is what happens after we die means that we give what we have to those in need and also "bear another's burdens" (Galatians 6:2) and support each other. This can be seen in the many Christian organisations, such as World Vision, who go to less privileged countries to support the people there, giving them food and money, taking care of the sick, and sharing the word of God. 

Similarly, in Islam, suffering is viewed as a test from Allah that can lead to reward and growth. Muslims believe they can earn greater reward in the afterlife by enduring the suffering and continuing to praise Allah. It is seen as part of Allah's plan, and Muslims believe that there is wisdom behind every trial, even if it is not immediately apparent. Therefore, they are encouraged to help others who are suffering through charity, tithing and acts of kindness and they are motivated to endure through the hardships. Like Christianity, there are also many Islam organisations who go out and help people who are suffering. The effects of suffering can also be seen in their ideas of Jihad, which say they should also fight against oppression and protect the vulnerable. 

The understanding of life after death in Mainstream Protestant Christianity and Moderate Islam significantly influences the way that Christians and Muslims live their lives. Both religions believe in a judgment day where you are either rewarded with eternal life in Heaven/Paradise or face punishment in Hell, though Christianity believes salvation is through faith in Jesus Christ, while Islam believes you need faith in Allah along with good deeds. These beliefs have wider implications such as war, where both religions support justice and ethical conduct, and the role of women, who are seen as equals.